README.md, before:

# SOS Django Template

![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-WTFPL-black.svg)
![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-0.5.2-green.svg)
![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/-python%203.7%2B-blue.svg)
![Django Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/-django%202.2%2B-0C4B33.svg)

SOS (Separation of Settings) Django Template is a Django template, hence the name, separates the settings into development and production environment. However, it does not only do separate settings, it creates an _opinionated_ starter environment for Django by including a couple more packages to install and more features.

 > #### Warning
 >
 > If you would like to contribute, see "Notes" section below.

## How to Use

`django-admin startproject` command accepts `--template` flag. This template argument accepts a URL that points to a zip file.

The `master` branch of this repository is considered to be stable. So, adding `archive/master.zip` to the URL of this repo should be enough, see below:

```
https://github.com/erayerdin/sos-django-template/archive/master.zip
```

So, now you can use this URL with `django-admin` to start your project:

```bash
django-admin startproject yourProjectName --template https://github.com/erayerdin/sos-django-template/archive/master.zip
```

You can also view [releases](https://github.com/erayerdin/sos-django-template/releases) and select specific one to install. To install a specific version, you can:

```bash
django-admin startproject yourProjectName --template https://github.com/erayerdin/sos-django-template/archive/refs/tags/<VERSION_HERE>.zip
```

After `cd`'ing into project directory, the first thing you need to do is to install platform-specific dependencies on your system. Currently, only Ubuntu dependencies are provided. PRs are welcome if you'd like to specify dependencies for other platforms. To install platform-specific dependencies:

```bash
sudo apt install $(cat ubuntu.requirements.txt)
```

After this, you can launch poetry shell and install dependencies:

```bash
poetry shell
poetry install
```

After doing these steps, you better check `.env.example`  file on the project root. You have to copy/move/rename it  as `.env` and **set `DJANGO_SECRET_KEY` environment  variable before running Django** or *Django will not run*.

You also might want to install pre-commit in order to check the style and sort the imports before committing.

```bash
pre-commit install
```

The first time for pre-commit to install might take a  couple of minutes.

## Environment

This template requires:

- Minimum Python 3.7
- Minimum Django 2.2
- Poetry

This template includes these with production in mind:

- [Celery](https://docs.celeryproject.org/en/latest/) for scheduled and asyncronous tasks
- [Django Rest Framework](http://django-rest-framework.org/) for REST applications and building AJAX-based applications

Also, these with development in mind:

- [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/), which is a great dependency management solution rather than manually specifying dependencies on separate files.
- [Django Debug Tooolbar](https://django-debug-toolbar.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html#getting-the-code), which is a handy tool that provides information about template generation, query building etc.
- [Django CORS Headers](https://github.com/ottoyiu/django-cors-headers), which allows CORS requests in only development environment and overcomes the pain of CORS errors during development
- [Pytest Django](https://pytest-django.readthedocs.io/en/latest/), which integrates amazing [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/) testing framework with Django
- [Pytest PUDB](https://github.com/wronglink/pytest-pudb) is a tool that you can
use to debug Django/Python on terminal with [pudb](https://github.com/inducer/pudb).
- [environs](https://github.com/sloria/environs) to load your `.env` variables
- [Black](https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/), which is a on-the-fly Python code formatter and linter
- [Isort](https://isort.readthedocs.io/en/latest/), which sorts imports on-the-fly
- [flake8](https://gitlab.com/pycqa/flake8) to lint your code
- [ipython](https://ipython.org/), which spawns when you `python3 manage.py shell`.

## Architecture and Design Choices

SOS Django Template aims to provide a solid foundation with well-known packages for the solutions _targeting backend_. The file structure is slightly modified for better development.

### Settings

SOS Django Template, hence its name, separates Django settings to development and production environments.

All settings are located in `project.settings` as a package and this package contains three separate modules:

- **`project.settings.defaults` module:** This module
  contains _default_ settings that are generated with
  `django-admin startproject`.
- **`project.settings.base` module:** This module
  contains the settings in both _production_ and
  _development_ environment.
- **`project.settings.development` module**
- **`project.settings.production` module**

When the Django application is called within the terminal, it must point to either `development` or `production` module. By default, `manage.py` uses `development` module and `project/wsgi.py` uses `production` module.

The overall import schema for settings are as below:

```
defaults
└── base
    ├── development
    └── production
```

### PostgreSQL
SOS Django Template already assumes that you will use PostgreSQL. It installs and is preconfigured to work with PostgreSQL. Check your `.env.example` file in the project root to further configure your setup.

### DotEnv

[Due to twelve-factor app conventions](https://12factor.net/config), separating your configuration from application is considered to be a better practice. SOS Django Template comes batteries included to use `.env` files in your codebase and already has a `.env.example` file. You have to copy this file to your project root as `.env` for your project to run.

After copying, you better review your config file to make some changes such as secret key and database settings.

Under the hood, SOS Django Template uses [environs](https://github.com/sloria/environs#usage-with-django) to read your configurations. You probably would like to check their documentations out in order to create your extra configurations.

### Celery

The template includes Celery and `project` is configured to be ready to use Celery, but Celery configurations have not been defined. If you want to use Celery, you need to configure your message broker and results backend. [This article][django_celery_article] shows an example.

[django_celery_article]: https://realpython.com/asynchronous-tasks-with-django-and-celery/

### Fixtures

You can define your pytest fixtures inside `project.fixtures` package. If you want to define your fixture in a separate module inside `fixtures`, then you need to import that in `__init__.py`.

```python
# project.fixtures

from .auth import user_factory, token_factory
# these are examples
```

### EditorConfig

This project also provides a `.editorconfig` file to instruct your editor or IDE and keep your files clean. Check [the file](.editorconfig) to see what files are affected by this.

## Notes

- `black` and `isort` is not bound by a git hook by default. You should integrate them with `pre-commit install` at first install.
 - If you intend to contribute to the project, please **target `development` environment**. `development` branch is supposed to have the latest stuff.

Commit message:

moved how to use section after requirements section

README.md, after:

# SOS Django Template

![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-WTFPL-black.svg)
![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-0.5.2-green.svg)
![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/-python%203.7%2B-blue.svg)
![Django Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/-django%202.2%2B-0C4B33.svg)

SOS (Separation of Settings) Django Template is a Django template, hence the name, separates the settings into development and production environment. However, it does not only do separate settings, it creates an _opinionated_ starter environment for Django by including a couple more packages to install and more features.

 > #### Warning
 >
 > If you would like to contribute, see "Notes" section below.

## Environment

This template requires:

- Minimum Python 3.7
- Minimum Django 2.2
- Poetry

The production and development Python requirements are defined in `pyproject.toml` file. The system requirements are defined in `<SYSTEM_NAME>.requirements.txt` files (currently, we only have requirements for Ubuntu).

This template includes these with production environment in mind:

- [Celery](https://docs.celeryproject.org/en/latest/) for scheduled and asyncronous tasks
- [Django Rest Framework](http://django-rest-framework.org/) for REST applications and building AJAX-based applications

Also, these with development in mind:

- [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/), which is a great dependency management and isolation solution rather than manually specifying dependencies on separate files.
- [Django Debug Tooolbar](https://django-debug-toolbar.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html#getting-the-code), which is a handy tool that provides information about template generation, query building etc.
- [Django CORS Headers](https://github.com/ottoyiu/django-cors-headers), which allows CORS requests in only development environment and overcomes the pain of CORS errors during development
- [Pytest Django](https://pytest-django.readthedocs.io/en/latest/), which integrates amazing [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/) testing framework with Django
- [Pytest PUDB](https://github.com/wronglink/pytest-pudb) is a tool that you can
use to debug Django/Python on terminal with [pudb](https://github.com/inducer/pudb).
- [environs](https://github.com/sloria/environs) to load your `.env` variables
- [Black](https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/), which is a on-the-fly Python code formatter and linter
- [Isort](https://isort.readthedocs.io/en/latest/), which sorts imports on-the-fly
- [flake8](https://gitlab.com/pycqa/flake8) to lint your code
- [ipython](https://ipython.org/), which spawns when you `python3 manage.py shell`.

## How to Use

`django-admin startproject` command accepts `--template` flag. This template argument accepts a URL that points to a zip file.

The `master` branch of this repository is considered to be stable. So, adding `archive/master.zip` to the URL of this repo should be enough, see below:

```
https://github.com/erayerdin/sos-django-template/archive/master.zip
```

So, now you can use this URL with `django-admin` to start your project:

```bash
django-admin startproject yourProjectName --template https://github.com/erayerdin/sos-django-template/archive/master.zip
```

You can also view [releases](https://github.com/erayerdin/sos-django-template/releases) and select specific one to install. To install a specific version, you can:

```bash
django-admin startproject yourProjectName --template https://github.com/erayerdin/sos-django-template/archive/refs/tags/<VERSION_HERE>.zip
```

After `cd`'ing into project directory, the first thing you need to do is to install platform-specific dependencies on your system. Currently, only Ubuntu dependencies are provided. PRs are welcome if you'd like to specify dependencies for other platforms. To install platform-specific dependencies:

```bash
sudo apt install $(cat ubuntu.requirements.txt)
```

After this, you can launch poetry shell and install dependencies:

```bash
poetry shell
poetry install
```

After doing these steps, you better check `.env.example`  file on the project root. You have to copy/move/rename it  as `.env` and **set `DJANGO_SECRET_KEY` environment  variable before running Django** or *Django will not run*.

You also might want to install pre-commit in order to check the style and sort the imports before committing.

```bash
pre-commit install
```

The first time for pre-commit to install might take a  couple of minutes.

## Architecture and Design Choices

SOS Django Template aims to provide a solid foundation with well-known packages for the solutions _targeting backend_. The file structure is slightly modified for better development.

### Settings

SOS Django Template, hence its name, separates Django settings to development and production environments.

All settings are located in `project.settings` as a package and this package contains three separate modules:

- **`project.settings.defaults` module:** This module
  contains _default_ settings that are generated with
  `django-admin startproject`.
- **`project.settings.base` module:** This module
  contains the settings in both _production_ and
  _development_ environment.
- **`project.settings.development` module**
- **`project.settings.production` module**

When the Django application is called within the terminal, it must point to either `development` or `production` module. By default, `manage.py` uses `development` module and `project/wsgi.py` uses `production` module.

The overall import schema for settings are as below:

```
defaults
└── base
    ├── development
    └── production
```

### PostgreSQL
SOS Django Template already assumes that you will use PostgreSQL. It installs and is preconfigured to work with PostgreSQL. Check your `.env.example` file in the project root to further configure your setup.

### DotEnv

[Due to twelve-factor app conventions](https://12factor.net/config), separating your configuration from application is considered to be a better practice. SOS Django Template comes batteries included to use `.env` files in your codebase and already has a `.env.example` file. You have to copy this file to your project root as `.env` for your project to run.

After copying, you better review your config file to make some changes such as secret key and database settings.

Under the hood, SOS Django Template uses [environs](https://github.com/sloria/environs#usage-with-django) to read your configurations. You probably would like to check their documentations out in order to create your extra configurations.

### Celery

The template includes Celery and `project` is configured to be ready to use Celery, but Celery configurations have not been defined. If you want to use Celery, you need to configure your message broker and results backend. [This article][django_celery_article] shows an example.

[django_celery_article]: https://realpython.com/asynchronous-tasks-with-django-and-celery/

### Fixtures

You can define your pytest fixtures inside `project.fixtures` package. If you want to define your fixture in a separate module inside `fixtures`, then you need to import that in `__init__.py`.

```python
# project.fixtures

from .auth import user_factory, token_factory
# these are examples
```

### EditorConfig

This project also provides a `.editorconfig` file to instruct your editor or IDE and keep your files clean. Check [the file](.editorconfig) to see what files are affected by this.

## Notes

- `black` and `isort` is not bound by a git hook by default. You should integrate them with `pre-commit install` at first install.
 - If you intend to contribute to the project, please **target `development` environment**. `development` branch is supposed to have the latest stuff.
